Hi there! Welcome to
this video. Today we
will learn about
different types of
social engineering.
Knowing the types
helps you recognize
attacks more easily.
The goal of this
video is to show
common types of
social engineering.
We will look at how
they work and what
warning signs to
watch for. This will
help you make safer
choices.
Social engineering
does not look the
same every time.
Attackers change
their tricks
depending on the
situation. But the
goal is always to
influence people.
Urgency attacks try
to make people act
quickly. They say
things like, act now,
or your account will
be closed. Urgency
stops people from
thinking carefully.
Impersonation is when
attackers pretend to
be someone else. They
might pretend to be a
teacher, a company,
or a friend. This
makes people trust
them more easily.
Some attacks promise
prizes or rewards.
They may say you won
something or earned a
bonus. The goal is to
make you share
information or click
a link. Fear-based
messages try to scare
people. They warn
about problems,
trouble, or loss.
Fear can make people
react without
checking. Curiosity
tricks make people
wonder what will
happen next. Messages
like, look at this,
or see what you
missed, are examples.
Curiosity can lead to
risky clicks.
Different attacks
look different
because people are
different. Attackers
choose tricks that
match the situation.
But the warning signs
are often similar.
Warning signs include
urgency, pressure,
requests for personal
information, messages
from unknown senders,
or offers that seem
too good to be true.
Noticing these signs
is an important skill
. These attacks can
appear in emails,
messages, games, and
social media. They
can also happen on
school platforms or
phone calls. No place
is completely risk
-free.
When you notice
warning signs, slow
down. Do not reply,
click, or share
information right
away. Checking first
can prevent problems.
If you are unsure,
ask a trusted adult
for help. Trusted
adults can help you
decide what to do
next. Asking for help
is a smart safety
choice. Let's recap.
Social engineering
has many types. They
often use urgency,
fear, trust, or
curiosity.
Recognizing warning
signs helps you stay
safe. Great work! In
this video, you
learned about types
of social engineering.
Next, you will
practice recognizing
these attacks and
learning how to
respond safely. Thank
you for watching.